[gentle acoustic guitar music]
♪
- I'm telling you, Maya,
my third eye is open
after today's circle.
I'm seeing all of it.
We were like dolls.
You know the Russian ones?
Trapped inside our parents
and our parents' parents.
- Circle's over, Barry.
Time to relax.
See where the night goes.
- I-I should go home tonight.
You know, tell my old man
exactly what's on my mind.
- Look.
You can see the Milky Way.
[uneasy music]
- What's that?
- Barry?
- Dad?
[eerie music]
♪
- I knew this stuff was laced.
- It's time to go home, son.
- Barry.
- It's too late.
I'm letting you go.
- I said it's time.
[creaking and rustling]
♪
- Barry!
- [groaning, yelling]
♪
[punchy, percussive music]
- The ties that bind a family
together can be complicated.
Parents raise you, teach you
what's right and wrong,
and in some instances,
how to kill monsters.
But no matter who you are,
there comes a time when
you have to break from them
and make your own way.
And if you're not careful,
things can get pretty ugly.
- Another dead-end
to your dad's trail.
- This all went down recently.
See if the Men of Letters files
about The Akrida are here
and make sure these bodies
are just zombies.
- Lata, we're not here
to play with zombies.
- It's dead.
Twice over, actually.
Look.
Its jaw can dislocate.
For bigger bites, I presume.
- You are deeply weird
and starting to concern me.
- File cabinets are all empty.
If there was information
about The Akrida, it's gone.
- Because my dad
already has it.
He was here,
and he made it out alive.
- S.C. It's Samuel Campbell.
- He taught me
how to make shotgun shells.
Always signed his work.
- But why wouldn't he wait for
us or try to contact you, Mary?
- This is his way
of contacting me.
- What are you talking about?
- [snarling]
[dramatic music]
♪
- Ohh--the box is not working!
- Come on!
- [snarling, growling]
- Hey!
[clank, crunch]
- [squeals]
- [growling]
[snarling]
- [grunting]
[coughs]
- You okay?
- [spits, coughs]
Yup. Yeah, I think
some got in my mouth. [spits]
So what about those shells?
- My dad always
covers his tracks.
There's no way he would
leave these behind
if he wasn't trying to
send me a message.
♪
It's a news story.
A father said his kid
Barry Smith
went missing in Topeka,
Kansas
due to mysterious
circumstances.
My dad must be there,
and he wants us to meet him.
- To find some kid
who's probably
sleeping off an acid trip?
Come on, Mary.
Your dad came here for
the same reason that we did--
to find
the Men of Letters files
and talk about our good friend
The Akrida.
Remember them and their little
plan to take over our world?
- Yeah and whatever he found
must've made him think
that this is connected to them.
- Or he just wants us
off his tail.
- He needs help, and we're
going to Topeka to find him.
- What about fixing the box?
- Can you just listen
for a second?
- My dad is out there alone.
We need to find him
before The Akrida do.
- Mary, just stop.
- Ada, you set up shop
in the clubhouse
and dig into fixing this box.
The rest of us will
talk to this kid's dad
and see what's going on.
- So you're just making
decisions for everyone now.
- I'm following
in my father's footsteps.
- Which means you don't listen
like he never listened.
- I'm doing whatever it takes
to find him,
so who's with me?
[soft, edgy music]
♪
Hey, you okay?
- In the war, I was a scout...
and my job was to find things.
I was good at that, but...
Striking out
the last couple weeks
looking for your dad,
I just...
Started to get worried.
- About?
- "My dad left me that letter
because he wanted me
to follow in his footsteps,"
but I don't know how.
- Well, in the Marines,
did you learn how to be
a scout overnight?
- [chuckles]
- You have nothing
to worry about.
You did good back there.
- Thanks.
I guess I'm lucky that I...
have such a good teacher.
- [chuckles]
Real smooth.
- Ow.
That was my bruised arm
from the two zombies
that I killed.
- Oh, no, no, no.
You technically killed one.
- What? No.
I mean...
[both laugh]
All right.
[bell dings]
[sighs]
Just give me sec.
- We had a deal.
You promised to come home.
Instead, it's your dad
all over again.
Y-you disappear for a week and
when you finally do come back,
you're covered in blood.
- It's not my blood.
- I waited for a call,
a single call,
and when the phone finally
rang, you know who it was?
Betty.
And the only thing
that shows up
is some trashed Roadrunner
with your name on it.
- First of all,
that's my friend's car,
and I'm gonna fix it.
Second, I didn't call because
it wasn't a part of the deal.
- I spent the last week
with your father's things.
His whole life
reduced to a box.
Is that all I'm gonna have
left of you too?
- You don't think
I can do this.
That's what this is about.
Right.
- John.
- Let's go, guys.
- Nervous?
- No, I'm not nervous.
I think I just prefer
the less talky, more punchy
side of hunting.
- Mm. Well, you're gonna
have to learn it all
if you're gonna do it all.
Just remember,
we're telling a story.
A story about a missing kid
from college,
which these fake IDs that
Carlos made prove we went to.
- [sighs]
You're not serious.
I'm Mick Fleetwood.
- [laughs]
Well, it's nice
to meet you, Mick.
I'm Christine McVie.
Come on.
How about you show me a smile?
- You really want me
to lay it all down.
- Ah, now you're in character.
Let's go.
- I'm not saying the name.
- Can I help you?
- Hi. Um, I'm Mick, um...
Fleetwood.
This is my friend Christine.
We're friends of Barry's
from school.
Do you have a minute to talk?
- Think you brought
enough books?
- There's even more in the van.
- [sighs]
Glad we had this talk.
- Did you hear John's mum
back at the garage?
She mentioned someone
named Betty.
Got to be an ex, right?
Hey.
You love gossip.
What's wrong?
You've been off since Savannah.
- Okay, I want to find Samuel.
I do, but...
I'm used to being the only one
on stage, you know?
- I don't.
I haven't been on stage.
- Well, 'cause
you're built for a band, Lata.
I'm not.
Especially when Mary's
on lead vocals.
She only knows how to sing
Samuel's song.
- I know those lyrics.
The ballad of the Campbell way
or the highway.
- So, no sign of my dad
or The Akrida,
but there is a case here.
- Why? What'd you find out
about the dad?
- Our missing kid, Barry,
got caught up with this girl
named Maya, and she took him
to this commune
called Harper's Ranch.
Now, Barry's dad
talked to Maya.
She said she saw Barry get
taken by some kind of monster.
His dad just assumed
she was on the drugs.
- A monster, you say?
- A commune, you say?
- Oh, Losy, stop smiling.
- Why are you smiling?
- Oh, you know what's coming!
- Losy.
- Lata.
♪ When the moon
♪ Is in the seventh house
both: ♪ And Jupiter
aligns with Mars ♪
- Because we're going
undercover in a damn commune.
both: ♪ Guide the planets
- Okay, stop.
This is a solo.
both: ♪ And love will
steer the stars ♪
- ♪ This is dawning
of the age of Aquarius ♪
♪ The age of Aquarius
♪ Aquarius
♪ Harmony and understanding
♪ Sympathy and trust
abounding ♪
♪ No more falsehoods
or derisions ♪
♪ Golden living dreams
of visions ♪
♪ Mystic crystal revelation
♪ And the mind's
true liberation ♪
♪ Aquarius
[soft music]
♪
- So far all I see is a lot
of peace, love, and happiness.
- Ooh, you know what they say?
"When in Rome"...
- Okay, tripping
the light fantastic
is gonna have to wait.
So you guys find Maya,
and we're gonna figure out
who's in charge here.
- It sounded like
that Barry saw his dad
come out in the woods.
We had just gotten back
from circle
and I know his old man
was fresh on his mind.
- Did you see his dad?
- No, I saw some
creepy, old thing.
I don't know.
It was dark.
I'm sure it was just the drugs.
Clyde thinks Barry maybe
ran off to California.
- Who's Clyde?
- We're always happy
to welcome new members
eager to do the hard work
they need to change.
- Yeah?
What kind of work is that?
- Breaking free from tyranny.
Everyone
that's controlling you.
Shedding your past like a skin.
Especially the people
who hurt you.
For me,
it was Sister Bernadette
at St. Nicholas' orphanage.
But for most people,
it's their parents.
Well, make yourselves at home
and when you're ready,
I will be your guide.
- He's definitely a suspect.
- All right, you saw something.
What did I miss?
- It's that necklace.
I've seen that symbol before.
Let's go to the van and see if
we can find it in Lata's books.
[wrench cranking]
- [clears throat]
Excuse me.
I didn't get a chance to
introduce myself earlier.
- Right.
One of John's new friends.
- Ada Monroe.
John just needs time.
He'll go to his corner.
He'll come back
when he's ready.
- You learn all that after one
week on the road with my son.
- I learned all that
from his father.
Look, Henry and I
just work together.
He had his secrets,
he made his mistakes.
But John...John is open
in a way
that Henry just never was.
And I suspect that part of him
comes from you.
I won't take up
any more of your time.
I wanted to give you this.
- What is this?
- It's the number and address
of the motel
where John and the others
are staying.
It's...peace of mind.
- Thank you, Ada.
- There is one more thing.
I saw this vine
when we drove in.
Do you mind
if I take some of it?
- You can take all of it
if you want.
Henry planted it years ago
and never learned its name
much less how to
take care of it.
Somehow it's still here
after all these years.
- It's jasmine.
It's for protection.
[quiet music]
♪
- It's Celtic. Triskelion.
A symbol for...
- Transformation.
- Maya said
Barry saw his father,
but Maya saw some creature.
- Maybe we're dealing with
a shapeshifter.
- Or these kids were just high.
- If we're dealing with
a shapeshifter,
then which kind?
There's dozens.
- I don't know,
but if it's Clyde,
we need to find him before
he shifts into another person.
Or takes another victim.
Come on.
- Didn't Barry
go missing out here?
- Missing?
I'm sure he just followed
his bliss to California.
You know, it's not easy
to make the break,
even for me.
You heard about how hard it was
when I escaped my mother
figure,
but it's part of the journey
we all must take.
[eerie music]
Do you see that?
- See...what?
- [whispering]
Sister Bernadette.
♪
- Clyde.
[creaking and rustling]
- [gasps]
- Aah!
- [whimpering]
- So Clyde's a shapeshifter.
Any tips on
how to hunt something
that can look like anything?
- My dad always taught me
this trick.
You have to look for
their tell.
No shapeshifter is perfect,
so you have to look for
any slipups in behavior.
And if that doesn't work,
the part where
they're trying to kill you is
usually a dead giveaway, so...
- Great. Yeah, no, I'll have to
thank your dad for that one.
- Mm, mm.
Once we find him.
- We make quite the pair, huh?
You can't find
one of your parents.
I can't seem to get
my mom off my back.
- Wow. What she said really
got under your skin, huh?
- What got under my skin is...
I wonder if she's right.
What if I'm not
cut out to be hunter?
- John, I already told you.
You just need time.
- Right.
It's my life, not hers.
- Mare.
Come here.
We got something.
We found her
wandering in a daze,
and not the fun,
drug-induced kind.
Clyde got attacked.
[whispering]
He's not the shapeshifter.
Layla said this is
where it happened,
but I don't see any signs of
Clyde or where he was taken.
- Well, if you wanna know
what kind of shapeshifter
we're dealing with,
there's only one
with green blood: a mimic.
My parents and I went up
against one in Alabama.
- Wait.
Th-that's good news, right?
That means we know
how to kill it.
- They're only vulnerable to
weapons made out of copper.
- You mean literally the only
metal I don't have in my van.
- You're kidding, right?
Why not?
- Because I pride myself
on carrying quality weaponry,
not cheap garbage
made out of...pennies.
- I think I might know
where we can get some.
I mean, the plumbing
back at the motel
is made out of copper, so...
we could use that
to make weapons.
- Guys, I don't think
we're dealing with a mimic.
This isn't blood.
It looks like sap to me.
- And what?
You think we're dealing with
some kind of tree monster?
- I'm not sure,
but that's not the only part
that's strange.
These purple flowers--
I've never seen
anything like them.
I'd have to check the lore,
but perhaps they're connected.
- I appreciate you kicking
the tires on this one, Lata,
but we finally have
an idea on this monster.
John, take the hippie's van,
get back to the motel,
and grab those pipes.
Let's track this thing down.
[dramatic music]
- [whispering] It's okay.
[moody, edgy music]
♪
[phone rings]
- Ada.
- Lata?
- We found this flower.
I don't know,
maybe it's stupid, but...
- Lay it on me.
- Purple, eight petals.
Actually kind of pretty
if you--
- How are the leaves?
- Sharp, spikey,
and there's a sap.
Dark green, tacky.
Smells like--
- Bad honey.
- It reminds me
of a rare flower
found in the remote regions
of Columbia.
I have a book--
- Don't bother.
I packed, like, a ton of books.
I'm pretty sure
it's in the van.
Thank you.
Ada, good luck.
- You too.
- Okay.
[edgy, eerie music]
♪
[clears throat]
[intense musical sting]
♪
[tires squeal]
[uneasy music]
♪
[clang]
- [grunts]
- [groans]
Stupid dress.
Okay, will you just
come out with it?
I mean, you're clearly
mad at me.
You haven't given me
the silent treatment
since I admitted
I hated "Cabaret."
- Please, please don't open
that wound again.
- This is about me and Lata
earlier, isn't it?
- It's about you and everyone.
You can't keep treating people
like your dad,
the frontman who ignores
the rest of the band.
You need to listen.
- Well, I don't have time
for that, especially when
there's a monster out there
putting people in danger.
- Your dad never
listened to you, right?
And how did that make you feel?
You keep Samuel
up on this pedestal,
but it's time
to take him down, Mare.
Take a page from
what everyone in this commune
is talking about and embrace
the kind of leader
you can be without him.
- Yeah?
What kind of leader is that?
- Well, that's up to you.
But if it were up to me,
you'd be David Crosby.
You know, C, S, N, and Y.
- Well, there's no Y anymore.
- That's not the point.
The point is we'd all be
on equal footing singing
four part harmonies--
[dramatic musical sting]
Lata, don't sneak up
on us like that.
We thought you were the mimic.
- What?
- Wait. Are you the mimic?
- No.
- Prove it.
- How?
- When was the last time I gave
Mary the silent treatment?
- I thought we agreed
to never to talk about it.
Fine. "Cabaret."
- She's not the mimic.
- Because I was right.
We're not hunting a mimic.
That's why I ran here.
Look, Ada helped me identify
the flower we'd been seeing.
It's from Columbia
and incredibly rare.
And the only explanation
for them being here is this.
Her name is La Tunda.
According to lore,
she was a real woman once.
A controlling and abusive
mother who kept her children
trapped in her home
deep in the woods,
until one day they tried
to escape by hobbling her.
She caught them
and she punished them
for their disobedience by...
chopping them up
and using their remains
to feed her flower garden.
The children's remains
imbued La Tunda's flowers
with dark magic and
an insatiable thirst for blood,
so they transformed La Tunda
into a monster
to keep them fed.
Now, she preys on
other disobedient children
like her own and
listens for them in the woods.
Then she lures them in
with a familiar face
before dragging them into
her lair to feed on them...
slowly, painfully,
and over months.
- What better place to do that
than here, right?
I mean, Barry said he told
his girlfriend that he was
gonna stand up to his dad
before he was taken
and Clyde did the same thing
with Sister Bernadette.
- And so did John.
- He did?
- If La Tunda was listening,
John could be in danger.
Let's go.
- Mom?
- You're not even
listening to me.
- Of course I am,
and I know why you're so upset.
A child's job is to rebel.
- Look, I'm not a kid, okay?
And I'm not rebelling.
Mom, I--
I don't want to fight with you.
Okay, but I just--
Look, I wish that you
believed in me.
Okay? I--
I can do this.
- Who are you trying
to convince, John?
This isn't about me
or your friends.
Deep down you know,
it's your dad
that never believed in you.
- That's not true.
- Please...
We both know that
if he really wanted you
to follow in his footsteps,
he would've stayed,
trained you to be
a part of the Men of Letters
like he was, but he didn't.
- We're done here.
- Not yet.
You have to face this.
I know it's painful,
knowing that you were
the reason he left.
Thinking about
what could've been,
especially after hearing
all those stories
about Samuel training
your new friend, Mary.
- See, that's funny...
'Cause I don't remember
telling you about Samuel.
Or Mary.
But I do remember this
one poker tip they gave me.
[groans]
Damn it.
You're not my mom.
- I'm not a mimic either.
- [groans]
- John?
- We're too late.
She has him.
- Where?
- Her lair.
- No. He has to be here.
- But I'm afraid I don't know
where that is.
- This is all my fault.
I should've just
listened to both of you.
I just--I just really thought
my dad was gonna be out here
and when I realized he wasn't,
I just wanted to
close the case and move on.
I'm sorry.
You're giving me
the silent treatment again.
- I'm just trying not to
keel over from all the shock.
I mean, Mary Campbell
apologizing.
I-I just never thought
we'd live to see the day.
- What he means is,
of course we forgive you.
- I'm sorry.
- Thank you.
- We're gonna find him, Mare.
Okay? We're gonna get him back.
- So what do we do now?
- Well, you're the one
who told us we're dealing with
Audrey III, so you tell us.
What's the plan, Lata?
[suspenseful music]
♪
- [softly] Hey, Barry!
Clyde.
Don't worry, okay?
[groans]
I'm gonna get us out of here.
- She'll kill you if you try.
- [groans]
- She doesn't like
children who disobey.
- La Tunda's
an abusive parent gone mad.
She's been preying on children
for centuries,
feeding and becoming
more powerful.
She's more plant
than person now.
- Okay, so how do we kill her?
A one-two punch of some DDT
and a pair of garden shears?
- It says her heart is the only
part of her that's vulnerable.
Legend says
it has to be pierced
by a piece of magic
as strong as her.
We may be able to use a part
of La Tunda's own magic
against her.
- How?
- Part of her own magic.
Wait.
You're kidding, right?
You want us to use her own leg
to stab her in the heart
and kill her?
- You said it, not me.
I'm a pacifist, remember?
- That is sick and twisted
enough, it might just work.
I take it back.
I love that
deeply weird side of you.
- Okay, okay, let's say
we can make this work.
We still don't even know
where to find her.
- I think I might.
- There's a time...
- [panting]
- When I was proud of you,
son.
But now, when I look at you,
all I see is disappointment.
- Dad--Dad, don't do this.
[groans]
No--no!
Aah! No--no!
No!
- She's back.
Dear God.
- No, no, no!
Aah--aah!
- You shouldn't have
disobeyed me, John.
Now, I have to punish you.
[suspenseful music]
- Are you sure
following this path of flowers
will lead us to La Tunda?
- Just go with it.
You trusted Samuel.
Who's following
in his footsteps now?
- [groans]
Come on.
Ah--
- Come on, John.
- [groaning] Ahh...
- You think you can
stand up to me?
You don't have it in you.
- That hurt.
Yep.
[gagging]
- Time to teach you
a little respect.
[John groans]
- Okay, I'll help John.
You guys save Barry. Go!
Hey, poison oak.
Feeding time's over.
[percussive music]
Aah!
Go for the leg.
- You can't hurt me.
You're still just
the helpless little boy
whose father left
because he didn't
believe in you.
- I just need to
believe in myself.
- Aah!
[shrieking]
[all breathing heavily]
- Nice shirt.
- Thanks.
[emotional music]
♪
[bell dings]
- Bye.
- Mom.
- You gonna introduce me
to your friend?
- This is Mary.
- It's nice to meet you,
Mrs. Winchester.
- Call me Millie.
It's your car, I assume.
You're all set.
It's on the house.
- Really?
- It's the least I could do.
You brought my kid home safe.
- Thank you.
- John--
- Wait. Before you--
before you tear into me,
can I just--can I go first?
I thought that I was angry at
you for not believing in me,
but I wasn't.
Okay, I was--
I was angry at Dad, and I did
what I always do, which is...
I took out on you
what I can't take out on him.
I'm sorry.
- I do believe in you, John.
The day that picture was taken,
your dad and I
got into a fight
about the Men of Letters
and how
it was always
taking him away from us.
But your dad and I
had this rule.
Whenever we fought,
no matter how bad it got,
we had to find a way
to tell each other after,
"I love you."
And we followed our rule
that day and--
and you can tell.
The last fight we had,
the day he walked out the door,
you know what neither of us
stopped to tell each other?
We're always
gonna have our fights
and I'm always
gonna worry about my baby,
but I am never gonna let you
walk out that door again
without telling you
I love you.
- I love you, too, Mom.
- Mannas for my heroes.
- [gasps]
- Eat it before it gets cold.
- Is that just literal cheese?
- Plain and boring,
how you like it.
- Hmm.
Thanks for calling me out
back there.
I hate to admit it,
but you're right.
- Mm-hmm.
- But I do have one question.
If I'm Crosby,
then what does that make you?
- You really have to ask.
Neil. Neil Young.
I mean, I may be
part of this band,
but you better watch out,
because I'm also a renegade.
[laughter]
- One sec.
So, did you finally get
your parent off your back?
- Not even close.
No, no.
She's still worried about me,
but at least
she believes in me.
- I call that a win.
- I'm sorry we didn't
find your dad.
- We got a monster
off the board.
I call that a win too.
- [chuckles]
[door creaks open]
- I think I have a lead
on the box.
- What is this place?
- There's more to the Clubhouse
than you may have guessed.
I'll give you
a full tour later.
Not the kind you're thinking.
Those will kill you in seconds.
- What are these?
[eerie sounds]
- Automatic writing.
I brewed a potion to
tap into my subconscious,
so I could access the echo of
any remaining portion
of the demon that possessed me.
- That sounds awful.
- The demon that
possessed me is dead,
but he knew the demon
that attacked you all
and they both
knew about the box,
so if we can find that demon...
- We might be able
to get some answers.
And The Akrida.
- And my father.
- While I am loving
this conversation,
I would just like to point out
that we still have some
pizza waiting for us, so...
[Crosby, Stills, Nash &
Young's "Teach Your Children"]
♪
- ♪ You, who are on the road
♪ Must have a code
♪ That you can live by
♪ And so
[inaudible speech]
- ♪ Become yourself
♪ Because the past
♪ Is just a good bye
♪ Teach your children well
♪ Your father's hell
♪ Did slowly go by
♪ And feed
♪ Them on your dreams
♪ The one they fix
♪ The one you'll know by
♪ Don't you ever
ask them why ♪
♪ If they told you,
you would cry ♪
♪ So just look at them
and sigh ♪
♪ And know they love you
♪
- [whistles]